*pandoc*

|Input_formats|
|Output_Formats|
|Common_in_out_formats|

|Lists|
|Links|
|Images|
|Tables|
|Footnotes|
|Definition|
|Inline_formatting|
|Blocks|
|Equations|
|Word_styles_used|
|Templates|

|Command_line_syntax|
|Where_to_get|


pandoc is a tool to convert to and from various markdown and rendering
file formats.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Common input/output formats                 *Common_in_out_formats*

commonmark
docbook
docx
epub
haddock
html
json
latex
markdown
markdown_github
markdown_mmd
markdown_phpextra
markdown_strict
mediawiki
native
odt
opml
org
rst
textile

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Input Formats                                   *Input_formats*

markdown, reStructuredText, textile, HTML, DocBook, LaTeX, MediaWiki
markup, TWiki markup, OPML, Emacs Org-Mode, Txt2Tags, Microsoft Word
docx, LibreOffice ODT, EPUB, or Haddock markup.  The relevant command
line options are:

    commonmark        json              markdown_strict   org
    docbook           latex             mediawiki         rst
    docx              markdown          native            t2t
    epub              markdown_github   odt               textile
    haddock           markdown_mmd      opml              twiki
    html              markdown_phpextra

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Output (rendered) Formats                            *Output_Formats*

The command line options for these output formats are:
    asciidoc          fb2               markdown_mmd      revealjs
    beamer            haddock           markdown_phpextra rst
    commonmark        html              markdown_strict   rtf
    context           html5             mediawiki         s5
    docbook           icml              native            slideous
    docbook5          json              odt               slidy
    docx              latex             opendocument      tei
    dokuwiki          man               opml              texinfo
    dzslides          markdown          org               textile
    epub              markdown_github   plain             zimwiki
    epub3

HTML formats:
    XHTML, HTML5, and HTML slide shows using Slidy, reveal.js, Slideous,
    S5, or DZSlides.

Word processor formats: 
    Microsoft Word docx, OpenOffice/LibreOffice ODT, OpenDocument XML

Ebooks:
    EPUB version 2 or 3, FictionBook2

Documentation formats:
    DocBook, TEI Simple, GNU TexInfo, Groff man pages, Haddock markup

Page layout formats:
    InDesign ICML

Outline formats: 
    OPML

TeX formats:
    LaTeX, ConTeXt, LaTeX Beamer slides

PDF via LaTeX

Lightweight markup formats:
    Markdown (including CommonMark), reStructuredText, AsciiDoc,
    MediaWiki markup, DokuWiki markup, Emacs Org-Mode, Textile

Custom formats: custom writers can be written in lua.

Pandoc understands a number of useful markdown syntax extensions,
including document metadata (title, author, date); footnotes; tables;
definition lists; superscript and subscript; strikeout; enhanced ordered
lists (start number and numbering style are significant); running
example lists; delimited code blocks with syntax highlighting; smart
quotes, dashes, and ellipses; markdown inside HTML blocks; and inline
LaTeX. If strict markdown compatibility is desired, all of these
extensions can be turned off.

LaTeX math (and even macros) can be used in markdown documents. Several
different methods of rendering math in HTML are provided, including
MathJax and translation to MathML. LaTeX math is rendered in docx using
native Word equation objects.

Pandoc includes a powerful system for automatic citations and
bibliographies, using pandoc-citeproc (which derives from Andrea
Rossatoâ€™s citeproc-hs). This means that you can write a citation like

[see @doe99, pp. 33-35; also @smith04, ch. 1]

and pandoc will convert it into a properly formatted citation using any
of hundreds of CSL styles (including footnote styles, numerical styles,
and author-date styles), and add a properly formatted bibliography at
the end of the document. Many forms of bibliography database can be
used, including bibtex, RIS, EndNote, ISI, MEDLINE, MODS, and JSON
citeproc. Citations work in every output format.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Command line syntax                             *Command_line_syntax*

pandoc.exe [OPTIONS] [FILES]

  -f FORMAT, -r FORMAT  --from=FORMAT, --read=FORMAT                    
  -t FORMAT, -w FORMAT  --to=FORMAT, --write=FORMAT                     
  -o FILENAME           --output=FILENAME                               
                        --data-dir=DIRECTORY                            
  -R                    --parse-raw                                     
  -S                    --smart                                         
                        --old-dashes                                    
                        --base-header-level=NUMBER                      
                        --indented-code-classes=STRING                  
  -F PROGRAM            --filter=PROGRAM                                
                        --normalize                                     
  -p                    --preserve-tabs                                 
                        --tab-stop=NUMBER                               
                        --track-changes=accept|reject|all               
                        --file-scope                                    
                        --extract-media=PATH                            
  -s                    --standalone                                    
                        --template=FILENAME                             
  -M KEY[:VALUE]        --metadata=KEY[:VALUE]                          
  -V KEY[:VALUE]        --variable=KEY[:VALUE]                          
  -D FORMAT             --print-default-template=FORMAT                 
                        --print-default-data-file=FILE                  
                        --dpi=NUMBER                                    
                        --no-wrap                                       
                        --wrap=auto|none|preserve                       
                        --columns=NUMBER                                
                        --toc, --table-of-contents                      
                        --toc-depth=NUMBER                              
                        --no-highlight                                  
                        --highlight-style=STYLE                         
  -H FILENAME           --include-in-header=FILENAME                    
  -B FILENAME           --include-before-body=FILENAME                  
  -A FILENAME           --include-after-body=FILENAME                   
                        --self-contained                                
                        --html-q-tags                                   
                        --ascii                                         
                        --reference-links                               
                        --reference-location=block|section|document     
                        --atx-headers                                   
                        --chapters                                      
                        --top-level-division=section|chapter|part       
  -N                    --number-sections                               
                        --number-offset=NUMBERS                         
                        --no-tex-ligatures                              
                        --listings                                      
  -i                    --incremental                                   
                        --slide-level=NUMBER                            
                        --section-divs                                  
                        --default-image-extension=extension             
                        --email-obfuscation=none|javascript|references  
                        --id-prefix=STRING                              
  -T STRING             --title-prefix=STRING                           
  -c URL                --css=URL                                       
                        --reference-odt=FILENAME                        
                        --reference-docx=FILENAME                       
                        --epub-stylesheet=FILENAME                      
                        --epub-cover-image=FILENAME                     
                        --epub-metadata=FILENAME                        
                        --epub-embed-font=FILE                          
                        --epub-chapter-level=NUMBER                     
                        --latex-engine=PROGRAM                          
                        --latex-engine-opt=STRING                       
                        --bibliography=FILE                             
                        --csl=FILE                                      
                        --citation-abbreviations=FILE                   
                        --natbib                                        
                        --biblatex                                      
  -m[URL]               --latexmathml[=URL], --asciimathml[=URL]        
                        --mathml[=URL]                                  
                        --mimetex[=URL]                                 
                        --webtex[=URL]                                  
                        --jsmath[=URL]                                  
                        --mathjax[=URL]                                 
                        --katex[=URL]                                   
                        --katex-stylesheet=URL                          
                        --gladtex                                       
                        --trace                                         
                        --dump-args                                     
                        --ignore-args                                   
                        --verbose                                       
                        --bash-completion                               
                        --list-input-formats                            
                        --list-output-formats                           
                        --list-extensions                               
                        --list-highlight-languages                      
                        --list-highlight-styles                         
  -v                    --version                                       
  -h                    --help                                          
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Where to get                                        *Where_to_get*

asciidoc-8.6.9.zip
    https://sourceforge.net/projects/asciidoc/files/latest/download

txt2tags
    http://txt2tags.org/

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Word styles used                                  *Word_styles_used*

The pandoc manual states these are used, but I haven't seen any evidence
of the table style in a document.

Paragraph
    Normal
    Body Text
    First Paragraph
    Compact
    Title
    Subtitle
    Author
    Date
    Abstract
    Bibliography
    Heading 1
    Heading 2
    Heading 3
    Heading 4
    Heading 5
    Heading 6
    Block Text
    Footnote Text
    Definition Term
    Definition
    Caption
    Table Caption
    Image Caption
    Figure
    Figure With Caption
    TOC Heading

Character
    Default Paragraph Font
    Body Text Char
    Verbatim Char
    Footnote Reference
    Hyperlink

Table
    Normal Table


----------------------------------------------------------------------
Basic Markdown                                

<<style>> denotes the style used by Word 2016 for a given pandoc syntax
element.

*Lists* (all list items have <<Compact>> style)
    * Bullet list
        1. Ordered sublist
        1. Numbers need not be consecutive.
            An inline image:Â·Â·  (Note the two following spaces)
            ![](sample_word_doc/word/media/image54.png)
        1. Other stuffÂ·Â·
            Plain paragraphÂ·Â·
            Another plain paragraph
    * Next bullet
    - Another bullet
    + Another bullet

    1. Numbered
    1. Again

    You can have a paragraph interruption.  For a numbered list, count
    the previous first levels and put in an integer one greater to
    resume the count:

    3. Resume previous numbering.
    1. Once counting is synchronized, you can use any digit again.

*Links*
    External links
        Automatic:  enclose in < and >:  <http://google.com>

        Inline:  link text in [], followed by URL in parentheses: [Link to
        google](http://google.com "Google's website").  An optional title can
        be in double quotes after the URL (hover your mouse over it to see
        it).  Email:  [My email address](mailto:abc@xyz.com).  Note you have
        to include the *mailto:*.

        Reference links.  First type is an  explicit reference [This is the
        link text][link_label].  Link labels are case-insensitive.
        Implicit references: The second pair of brackets are empty [my
        website][].
        Shortcut reference links omit the second brackets [my website].

        [my website]: /foo/bar.html "My website's title"
        [link_label]: /foo/bar.html "Optional title"

    Internal links

        For a header's text, remove punctuation and replace spaces with
        hyphens.  Then [link](#my-header) is an internal link that will jump
        to the section header 'My header'.  Though pandoc's manual says it's
        only supported for HTML, epub, LaTeX, and ConTeXt, it seems to work
        in Word too.

*Images*
    ![Caption text](pictures/psu.jpg)
    The figure has the style <<Figure with Caption>>.

    Inline figure:
        ![](pictures/image54.png)

*Tables*
    Simple table.  Column alignment determined by header.  Contents must
    fit on one line:

          Right     Left     Center     Default
        -------     ------ ----------   -------
             12     12        12            12
            123      123      123          123
              1     1          1             1

        Table caption:  Demonstration of simple table syntax.

    Note the table caption gets put before the table.  It has style
    <<Table Caption>>.

    The table header row can be omitted if the same line of hyphens is
    put at the bottom of the table.

    Simple table of one row and column:

        ------------------------------------------------------------
        This is a message inside a table.  I checked this in Word
        and it is in fact a table.
        ------------------------------------------------------------

    Table spanning multiple lines:

        -------------------------------------------------------------
         Centered   Default           Right Left
          Header    Aligned         Aligned Aligned
        ----------- ------- --------------- -------------------------
           First    row                12.0 Example of a row that
                                            spans multiple lines.

          Second    row                 5.0 Here's another one. Note
                                            the blank line between
                                            rows.
        -------------------------------------------------------------

    Table: Here's the caption. It may span multiple lines.  

    Rows must be separated by blank lines.  You can omit the header if
    you wish, same as the one-line table above.

    If a column is too narrow, try widening it in the source.

    Grid tables

        +---------------+---------------+--------------------+
        | Fruit         | Price         | Advantages         |
        +===============+===============+====================+
        | Bananas       | $1.34         | - built-in wrapper |
        |               |               | - bright color     |
        +---------------+---------------+--------------------+
        | Oranges       | $2.10         | - cures scurvy     |
        |               |               | - tasty            |
        +---------------+---------------+--------------------+

    Can contain arbitrary elements.  Colons can be used for alignment marks
    after the header

        +---------------+---------------+--------------------+
        | Fruit         | Price         | Advantages         |
        +===============+===============+====================+
        | Bananas       | $1.34         | - built-in wrapper |
        |               |               | - bright color     |
        +---------------+---------------+--------------------+
        | Oranges       | $2.10         | - cures scurvy     |
        |               |               | - tasty            |
        +---------------+---------------+--------------------+

    For headerless tables:

        +--------------:+:--------------+:------------------:+
        | Right         | Left          | Centered           |
        +---------------+---------------+--------------------+

    Pipe tables:

        | Right | Left | Default | Center |
        |------:|:-----|---------|:------:|
        |   12  |  12  |    12   |    12  |
        |  123  |  123 |   123   |   123  |
        |    1  |    1 |     1   |     1  |

    Begin/end pipes optional; colons indicate alignment.  Must have header.
    Put blank cells in header to simulate headerless table.  Cannot contain
    block elements like paragraphs and lists.

    You don't need
    to align the pipes:

        fruit| price
        -----|-----:
        apple|2.05
        pear|1.37
        orange|3.09

*Footnotes*         <<Footnote Text>>
        Simple[^1] and using a label[^longnote].  
    The number is just a placeholder; they'll get numbered
    automatically.  Elsewhere you put in the contents:
        [^1]: This is for the first footnote.

        [^longnote]: This is for the second footnote.
    A footnote's text can span multiple lines by indenting the following
    stuff.  You can inlcude links.

    Inline footnotes are easy^[Inline footnotes are simple but can't
    contain multiple  lines]

*Definition*
    A first term <<Definition Term>>
    : Definition of first term with some *markup* <<Definition>>

    A second term **also** with markup
    : Definition 2

            A code block,
            part of definition 2

        Third paragraph of definition 2

*Inline_formatting*

    *word* and _word_           Italics
    **word** and __word__       Bold
    ***word*** and ___word___   Bold italics
    ~~word~~                    Strikethrough
    `verbatim`                  Monospaced font
    \*word\* can be used to escape these symbols.
    Small caps:
        [Small caps]{style="font-variant:small-caps;"}

*Blocks*

*Equations*

*Templates*
